---
Order:
TOCTitle: July 2022
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code July 2022
MetaDescription: Learn what is new in the Visual Studio Code July 2022 Release (1.70)
MetaSocialImage: 1_70/release-highlights.png
Date: 2022-8-4
DownloadVersion: 1.70.0
---
# July 2022 (version 1.70)

<!-- DOWNLOAD_LINKS_PLACEHOLDER -->

Welcome to the July 2022 release of Visual Studio Code. There are many updates in this version that we hope you'll like, some of the key highlights include:

* **[Azure Developer CLI](#azd)** - Accelerate the time it takes you to go from VS Code to Azure

## Contributions to extensions

### Azure Developer CLI (`azd`)
We are excited to announce that the open-source [Azure Developer CLI](https://github.com/Azure/azure-dev) and its complementary [VS Code extension](https://aka.ms/azure-dev/vscode-ext) are now in public preview. The Azure Developer CLI (`azd`) accelerates the time it takes you to get from your local development environment to Azure by providing developer-friendly commands that map to key stages in your workflow: code, build, deploy, monitor, repeat.

The Azure Developer CLI uses [extensible templates](https://github.com/topics/azd-templates) that include everything you need to get an application up and running in Azure. The templates include best practices, application code and reusable infrastructure as code assets.  More than that, they cover end-to-end scenarios that go far past “Hello World!”. Not only can you use one of the templates authored by the community, you can create your [own template](https://aka.ms/azure-dev/enabletemplate) based off an existing project!

With the Azure Developer CLI, a typical developer workflow looks like this:

1.	`azd init`: Create an application and initialize an environment using a sample template in your preferred language.
2.	`azd provision`: Provision the necessary resources for your application on Azure.
3.	`azd deploy`: Deploy your application to Azure.
4.	`azd monitor`: Monitor your application’s behavior and performance and validate deployments.
5.	`azd pipeline config`: Create and manage CI/CD (continuous integration and continuous delivery).

Better yet, you can also use `azd up` to create, provision, and deploy a new application in one step! For a list of supported commands, see the Developer CLI [reference docs](https://aka.ms/azure-dev/ref).

All Azure Developer CLI functionality is available to use by opening the Command Palette and typing “Azure Developer”, or by right-clicking on an `azure.yaml` file in your project.

<!-- In-product release notes styles.  Do not modify without also modifying regex in gulpfile.common.js -->
<a id="scroll-to-top" role="button" title="Scroll to top" aria-label="scroll to top" href="#"><span class="icon"></span></a>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/inproduct_releasenotes.css"/>
